[[200 Journal/_journal|Journal]]  |  [[2025-04-25|Next >>]]

> [!quote] Emerson
> A bookworm, in contrast, finds his knowledge third-hand through books and borrows the wisdom of other people without questioning it or lining it up against his experience or conscience: in other words, without weighing its value against his own ideas.

I consume a lot of information every day... often to my own detriment.

I've been toying with the idea of improving the quality of this consumption, so that I attentively consume useful information to formulate personal/novel ideas myself from it - and also as a way to be more mindful of overloading my senses and emotions with the endless streams of content.

I'm going to try implementing a routine of methodic note-taking and daily journaling via Obsidian with two 'personas'.  I'm calling them 'personas' as the space and approach I provide myself in each of these environments will be different. 

It's obviously important to note-take in a productive manner of sorts... whether via bottom-up or top-down approaches. I've flirted many times with Luhmann's slip box approach - the Zettelkasten. So i'm going to give that a go. For one reason or another it pulls my heart strings a little just thinking about Luhmann retracing his connected notes and deriving new novel links or ideas from them.. The idea that you consume some information.. digest it, turn it to your own interpretation, then sit it on the shelf with the past days, months & years of interpretations - to later come back and synthesise something new from it ... it's just what I imagine historic philosophers did. So i'm going to give it a go.. I'm going to collect these notes in what I'll phrase as my 'slips'.

On the contrary, I think it's important to express ideas without analysis, to just allow unfiltered thoughts and emotions to unpack themselves and be dumped on a page... ultimately this is the creative space that one hopes to come naturally, similar to shower thoughts.  There may be some great ideas to come out of the shower thoughts, but trying to critique them in real time is going against itself... so i've decided I'm going to just call this space, my 'journal'. 

In the future I'd hope these 2 domains and personas intercept more...  Much like what Thoreau and Emerson were like... I'd like to get to a place where I consume less, but create more again.  To be a bit more myself and have my own opinions, perceptions and ideas of the world, rather than regurgitate the ideas of others..

Something I read about 10 years ago has always stuck with me when i sit with ideas similar to these... It's from Emerson's American Scholar where he highlights what was probably the beginning of 'consumerism' in the 19/20th century...  Albeit with academics...

> [!quote] Emerson
> Meek young men grow up in libraries, believing it their duty to accept the views which Cicero, which Locke, which Bacon have given—forgetful that Cicero, Locke, and Bacon were only young men in libraries when they wrote these books. Hence, **instead of Man Thinking, we have the bookworm**.

Often when i finish doom-scrolling, these works fly through my mind... The constant stream of ideas from social media, the news and similar often irks at me... not so much as I'm doing something wrong... but more from a feeling of being 'disconnected'...  Which is funny given how every 'connects' of 'social' apps...

I just get the feeling that I live a life outside of myself and kind of lose myself in the ideas and lives of others.  It kills my creativity and ultimately moves me away from who I am more.

So this time around, I'm going to give this whole 'journal' and 'slips' approach a go.. Rather than sticking to one method or another - I'll just do it my way.  For all intents and purposes... `My zettelkasten is my idea factory and my journal is where I record my perceptions of the world around me.` 
